How to Take Care of Porcelain Veneers After the Procedure
One of the most common questions I get from veneers patients is about maintenance and care after the procedure. Veneers, like similar forms of dental work are an investment that must be cared for to keep them looking their best. The good news is if you follow these steps below your veneers could last you a very long time.

Here are some ways to take care of your veneers and keep them looking as good as the day you got them:


VISIT YOUR DENTIST REGULARLY
Seeing yourVeneers dentist regularly could stop any problems that may arise before masked with your own veneers. Your dentist may keep check on your investment and be certain everything looks how it ought to. It’s ideal to catch any problems early on rather than down the street. Dentists may determine any gum ailments or mouth infections which could influence your veneers. By keeping an eye on possible problems, your veneers may remain out of harm’s way. You need to always maintain your dental hygiene in your home, but with your dentist offer your veneers an expert cleaning is almost always a fantastic idea. Professional dental gear will always be much more powerful than an at-home cleaning, however you ought to always be maintaining your at-home care by brushing twice each day and flossing at least once every day.

STOP THE GRINDING
Grinding your teeth is a concealed distress for grin. Just about everyone grinds their teeth into a level, the majority of the time not understanding it is occurring. Grinding of the teeth can be very damaging for all those who have veneers, since this wears away in the veneer and eliminates the cap layer from the first tooth. Teeth grinding may also result in cracking or breakage up of the veneer.
In case you have veneers, then you are able to take precautions against grinding by purchasing a mouth guard and sporting it while sleeping. It is also possible to seek the advice of your dentist to get further choices to assist teeth grinding. Wear a mouth guard in these types of scenarios too. You do not need to chip your veneer off at a game of soccer! A mouth guard is a multipurpose approach to be certain that your veneers remain undamaged.
AVOID DAMAGING SUBSTANCES
People who have veneers should be quite vigilant as for their eating habits. Veneers can easily be damaged and stained due to smoking and excess alcohol use. Smoking will yellowish veneers as it yellows your teeth that are original. This doesn’t signify that the veneers will come from your initial enamel, but it will imply it is going to produce the bonding region more prone to yellowing and elongated damage.
You need to stay away from eating certain kinds of foods like hard or snacking on tough foods. Stay away from foods like raw carrots and apples, as this causes extreme anxiety into the veneers. Tough food items must be prevented to create certain that your veneers don’t break or chip. As hard food items must be prevented, so should inedible chewing. This may have exactly the exact same harm as tough food solutions. Veneers are ceramic and can easily be chipped should they come in contact with tough products. You also need to attempt to prevent substances that cause teeth discoloration. As actual teeth can blot, so can veneers. Cut down on tea, coffee, pop, dark-colored beverages, and berries.
How Long do Veneers Last?
Getting veneers is an investment in your smile that you must take careful steps to preserve. By visiting your doctor regularly for examinations and cleanings, wearing a mouth guard to prevent grinding and injuries, as well as avoiding damaging substances such as tobacco, dark alcohol, and hard candies, your veneers will stay white and work well for many years! Just remember: Veneers are just like your real teeth. If something can damage your teeth, it can also damage your veneers. For more information or to schedule an appointment at Dublin Metro Dental, please contact us.
